docs: documentation for the tech site (#148)
decentraland/catalyst-owner: docs/glossary.md

---
title: "Glossary"
slug: "/contributor/catalyst/glossary"
---

### Catalyst

> [Catalyst](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst) is the name given to the **Decentraland Service Bundle**, each Catalyst [node](https://decentraland.github.io/catalyst-monitor) has a set of services that work as the backbone for the platform and exposes a public [API](https://decentraland.github.io/catalyst-api-specs/). 

Reviewer: The only thing that is not super exact here is the fact that all comms, both v2 and v3 are outisde of catalyst

Author: change it to expose

### Bootstrap

The moment when the Catalyst is booted, the node will have a `Bootstrapping` until it is ready to serve content. 

### Catalyst Client

> [Library](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst-client) that can be used to interact with the Catalyst servers. You can both fetch data, or deploy new entities to the server you specify.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Library](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst-client) that can be used to interact with the Catalyst servers. It allows both fetching data and deploying new entities to the specified server.
```

### Entity

Data Type, defined with [schemas](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas), that cannot be stored in the blockchain because of its size. Some of the current [supported types](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/entity.ts#L13) are the following:

- [Wearable](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/item/wearable/wearable.ts)
- [Emote](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/item/emote/emote.ts)
- [Scene](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/scene/scene.ts)
- [Profile](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/profile/profile.ts)

> 

Reviewer 2: Add stores?

### Deployment

Instances of Entities created on the Content Server and identified with a unique [EntityId](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/entity.ts#L31). Deployments can be of any [Entity Type](https://github.com/decentraland/common-schemas/blob/main/src/platform/entity.ts#L13).

### Failed Deployment 

Instance of an Entity deployed to a Content Server that failed to pass the [Content Validations](https://github.com/decentraland/adr/blob/main/docs/ADR-51-catalyst-content-validations.md). Validations are implemented on the [content validator](https://github.com/decentraland/content-validator) library. 

### Active Entity 

> Current Entity content deployed on a pointer, thus all active entities represent the live content of Decentraland: scenes, profiles, wearables, etc. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An entity that is current deployed on a pointer, thus all active entities represent the live content of Decentraland: scenes, profiles, wearables, etc. 
```

> ### Deployment History 

Reviewer 2: This doesn't exist anymore (as soon as 4.8.7 gets deployed), I'd remove the whole section.

> Each time a new version of a Deployment is done on a `pointer`, the `Active Entity ` content changes and the previous active content passes to be part of the pointer history. The list of deployments done on a pointer order by timestamp represent the history.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each time a new version of a Deployment is done on a `pointer`, the `Active Entity ` content changes and the previous active content becomes inactive. The list of deployments done on a pointer order by timestamp represent the history.
```

### Pointer 

> Pointers are the ids or locations to which a Deployment belongs, they change based on the `Entity Type`, for example: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pointers are the ids or locations to which a Deployment belongs. Their format is different based on the `Entity Type`, for example: 
```

- **Wearables**: Uses URN as pointers `urn:decentraland:ethereum:collections-v1:dg_atari_dillon_francis:gerald_patchwork_knit_sweater`

> - **Scenes**: Uses an array of parcels as pointers `[(0,0), (0,1), (0,-1)]`

Reviewer 2: This is not entirely true. For scenes, the pointer is `x,y`, for e.g. `-10,20`. The list is not a concept really. It only exists on a deployment where you associate a particular content with a list of pointers.

- **Profiles**: Uses a Wallet address as pointer `0xb01ddb6d4c89314f74a32dfc2f3bd0f8311a6d75`
- **Stores**: Uses a URN as pointer `urn:decentraland:off-chain:marketplace-stores:{wallet}`

### URN 

> [URN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Name) stands for  Uniform Resource Name, they are used as global unique identifiers for assets across the Metaverse projects. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[URN](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Name) stands for Uniform Resource Name. They are used as global unique identifiers for assets across the Metaverse projects. 
```

- URN Resolver: https://github.com/decentraland/urn-resolver
- URN Namespace: https://github.com/common-metaverse/urn-namespaces
   
### Content Server

> The [Content Server](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst/tree/main/content) is a part of the Catalyst node in charge of managing the Decentralized storage of Entities Deployments. Currently, all content stored in a Content Server is synchronized with the rest of the DAO Catalysts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Content Server](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst/tree/main/content) is a part of the Catalyst node in charge of managing the Decentralized storage of Entitiy Deployments. Currently, all content stored in a Content Server is synchronized with the rest of the DAO Catalysts.
```

### Lambdas

> The [Lambdas](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst/tree/main/lambdas) Service is a part of the Catalyst node that that works as a reconciliation layer between the Content Servers and the Blockchain, sanitizing content, validating ownership and helping retrieve information for the Catalyst clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Lambdas](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst/tree/main/lambdas) Service is a part of the Catalyst node that works as a reconciliation layer between the Content Servers and the Blockchain, sanitizing content, validating ownership and helping retrieve information for the Catalyst clients.
```

### Synchronization 

> Content Servers have to offer the ability to deploy content on them, and also ensure that any content deployed on any other valid and running Catalyst from the DAO List is available there too. Resolving this is called **synchronization**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Content Servers offer the ability to deploy content on them. They also ensure that any content deployed on the other Catalysts from the DAO is available there too. Resolving this is called **synchronization**. 
```

### Content SNAPSHOT 

A set of all the  Active Entities of the specified type. This Content SNAPSHOTS are used to synchronize content between Catalyst nodes.

### Realm 

When connected to Decentraland, you would only be able to interact with Peers connected to the same Realm. As friendly-names Realms make use of Greek Gods names such as Hela or Loki. Each realm is determined by a single [Catalyst Node](https://decentraland.github.io/catalyst-monitor/).

### Peer 

A user connected to Decentraland. 

### Lighthouse 

> The [Lighthouse](https://github.com/decentraland/lighthouse) is the name used t reference the previous version of the Communications Service hosted on the Catalyst nodes and used to group users in a P2P network. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Lighthouse](https://github.com/decentraland/lighthouse) is the name used to reference the previous version of the Communications Service hosted on the Catalyst nodes and used for grouping users in a P2P network. 
```

Main responsibilities were to determine which are the candidates for a P2P connection and do the WebRTC signaling to establish the connection. Most of this logic was done through two external components: the PeerJS Server (connects [WebRTC](https://webrtc.org/) peers) and Archipelago (receives users positions and groups them in islands).

### Backend for Frontend (aka BFF) 

The [BFF](https://github.com/decentraland/explorer-bff) Service was created to resolve client needs and to enable faster development of new features without breaking the existing APIs. In the context of the Catalyst Communication Service, it will be in charge of managing the P2P signaling and thus replacing the Lighthouse.

### Catalyst Owner

> A [Catalyst Owner](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst-owner) is an individual or organization running a Catalyst node that is part of the DAO. To add a Catalyst node to the DAO network a [proposal](https://governance.decentraland.org/?type=catalyst) needs to be submitted.

Reviewer: I think a catalyst-owner doesn't really need to be part of the DAO (although of course that's the only way to really contribute to the network right now)

### Archipelago Service 

> The [Archipelago Service](https://github.com/decentraland/archipelago-service) previously was a library used by the Lighthouse. This service will have the same responsibility that the library did: group Peers in clusters so they can communicate efficiently and each cluster is called an island. On the other hand, the service also needs to be able to balance islands using the available communications Transports and following a set of [Catalyst Owner](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst-owner) defined rules, in order to, for example, use LiveKit for an island in the Casino scene and P2P in a Genesis Plaza.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Archipelago Service](https://github.com/decentraland/archipelago-service) previously was a library used by the Lighthouse. This service will have the same responsibility that the library did: group peers into clusters so they can communicate efficiently between them. Each cluster is called an island. On the other hand, the service also needs to be able to balance islands using the available communications transports and following a set of [Catalyst Owner](https://github.com/decentraland/catalyst-owner) defined rules, in order to, for example, use LiveKit for an island in the Casino scene and P2P in a Genesis Plaza.
```

### Island

Cluster of connected peers.

### Communication Transport 

> Transport is the technology used to share updates between Peer connected to an Island.

Reviewer: Peer(s)

### P2P Transport 

Uses [WebRTC](https://webrtc.org/) connections between Peers, no extra infrastructure needed to scale as the load is on the client side and the Servers only manage the signaling. Latency increases as more Peers are added to an Island. There is a limit on the amount of WebRTC connections a client can have thus in order to have bigger islands, more indirect connections (jumps) between peers are needed.

### LiveKit Transport 

> [LiveKit](https://livekit.io/) is an open source project that provides scalable, multi-user conferencing over WebRTC. Instead of doing a P2P network, Peers are connected to a Selective Forwarding Unit (SFU) in charge of managing message rely and different quality aspects of the communication. The SFUs are the added infrastructure needed in order to provide high-performance/high-quality communications between crowds on designated scenes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[LiveKit](https://livekit.io/) is an open source project that provides scalable, multi-user conferencing over WebRTC. Instead of doing a P2P network, Peers are connected to a Selective Forwarding Unit (SFU) in charge of managing message relay and different quality aspects of the communication. The SFUs are the added infrastructure needed in order to provide high-performance / high-quality communications between crowds on designated scenes.
```

### WebSocket Transport 

> The [WebSocket Transport](https://github.com/decentraland/ws-room-service) is lighter than LiveKit, it also requires a Server that manages the relay of messages through WebSocket rooms, rooms are equivalent to islands. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [WebSocket Transport](https://github.com/decentraland/ws-room-service) is lighter than LiveKit, it also requires a Server that manages the relay of messages through WebSocket rooms. Rooms are equivalent to islands. 
```

> This transport provides less latency/better performance than P2P islands but also requires the extra infrastructure.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This transport provides less latency and better performance than P2P islands but also requires the extra infrastructure. 
```

### NATS 

> [NATS](https://nats.io/) is a message broker that enables the date exchange and communication between services. In the context of the Catalyst Server it is used to communicate Some of the internal Services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[NATS](https://nats.io/) is a message broker that enables the data exchange and communication between services. In the context of the Catalyst Server it is used to communicate some of the internal services.
```
